BD-2817: Multi-page in-app messages EA [Merge 2/15] (#6865)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop/style_settings.md

---
nav_title: Style Settings

> article_title: "In-app message style settings"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
article_title: "In-App Message Style Settings"
```

description: "This reference article covers the styling options available when creating an in-app message with the drag-and-drop editor."
page_order: 3
---

# In-app message style settings

> The drag-and-drop editing experience is divided into two sections: **Build** and **Preview & Test**. This article covers what you need to know for working within the **Build** tab of the editor, and assumes you've already [created an in-app message]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop/create/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The drag-and-drop editing experience is divided into two sections: **Build** and **Preview & Test**. This article covers what you need to know for working within the **Build** tab of the editor and assumes you've already [created an in-app message]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop/create/).
```

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_message_styles.png %}){: style="float:right;max-width:25%;margin-left:15px;max-width:30%"}

## Message-level styles

You can set certain styles to be applied across all relevant blocks in your in-app message from the **Message Styles** tab. For example, you may want to customize the font of all the text or the color of all links in your message.

The styles set in this section are used everywhere in your message except where you override it for a specific block. If your message has [multiple pages]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/drag_and_drop/create#multi-page), you can also override the message-level styles for individual pages, with the exception of display type and max width.

> For an easier design experience, we recommend that you set up message-level styles first before you customize styles at the block level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an easier design experience, we recommend setting up message-level styles before you customize styles at the block level.
```

To return to the **Message Styles** tab at any time:

- Click the close X button on individual block properties
- Select the message container, message close X button, or editor background

### Custom fonts

We accept the following file types for fonts: `.ttf`, `.woff`, `.otf`, and `.woff2`. For more information, see [Asset files]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/in-app_messages/customize/html_in-app_messages#asset-files).

You can add multiple variations of a font family, as some styling options may not be available for custom fonts. Currently, we don't support adding fonts via URL.

To add a custom font:

1. Go to the **Content** section in the **Message styles** tab.
2. Click **Add custom font**.
3. Upload your font using the media library. 

{% alert note %}
The message-level font will only apply to the current message and any duplicated messages, but not to future templates.
{% endalert %}

## Message components

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_create.gif %})

> The drag-and-drop editor uses two key components to make in-app message composition quick and easy: **rows** and **blocks**. All blocks must be placed in a row.

Author: ```suggestion
The drag-and-drop editor uses two key components for composing in-app messages: **rows** and **blocks**. All blocks must be placed in a row.
```

> The drag-and-drop editor uses two key components to make in-app message composition quick and easy: **rows** and **blocks**. All blocks must be placed in a row.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The drag-and-drop editor uses two key components to make in-app message composition quick and easy: **rows** and **blocks**. All blocks must be placed in a row.
```
Consider replacing "quick and easy" with something else? 🤔

### Rows

Rows are structural units that define the horizontal composition of a section of the message by using cells.

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_rows.png %}){: style="max-width:40%"}

When a row is selected, you can add or remove the number of columns you need from the **Column customization** section to put different content elements side by side. 

You can also slide to adjust the size of existing columns.

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_column_customization.gif %}){: style="max-width:40%"}

As a best practice, format your row and column properties before formatting any of the blocks inside the rows. There are many places where you can adjust the spacing and alignment, so starting from the foundation makes it easier to edit as you go.

### Blocks

> Blocks represent different types of content you can use in your message. Simply drag one inside an existing row segment, and it will auto-adjust to the cell width.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blocks represent different types of content you can use in your message. Drag one inside an existing row segment, and it will auto-adjust to the cell width.
```

{% alert tip %}

> Before you add blocks, set up [message-level styles](#set-message-level-styles) for the message container, font, colors, and anything else you want to customize. You can then customize individual blocks as needed. The **Close Button** will remain at the top section of your message so that users always have an option to dismiss the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you add blocks, set up [message-level styles](#set-message-level-styles) for the message container, font, colors, and anything else you want to customize. You can then customize individual blocks as needed. The **Close Button** will remain at the top section of your message so that users always have the option to dismiss the message.
```

{% endalert %}

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_editor_blocks.png %}){: style="max-width:40%"}

> Every block has its own settings, such as granular control on padding. The right-side panel automatically switches to a styling panel for the selected content element. For more information, see [Editor Block Properties]({{site.baseurl}}/editor_blocks_dnd_iam/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every block has its settings, such as granular control on padding. The right-side panel automatically switches to a styling panel for the selected content element. For more information, see [Editor block properties]({{site.baseurl}}/editor_blocks_dnd_iam/).
```

As you build your in-app message, you can select a mobile, tablet, or desktop view in the toolbar to preview how your in-app message will look for your user groups. This will ensure that your content is responsive, and you can make any necessary adjustments along the way.

## Creative details

### Fullscreen on larger screens {#fullscreen}

On a tablet or desktop browser, a fullscreen in-app message will sit in the center of the app screen. Any edits to the max width of the fullscreen message will only apply to tablet and desktop devices.

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_fullscreen_example.png %}){: style="border:none"}

### Customize background image

You can add an image to the background of your message from the **Message styles** tab. The scrollable section of your message must be selected to add a background for the entire message.

{% alert tip %}
If you're having trouble selecting a certain block, you can use the up arrow in the block's inline toolbar to move focus up to each parent block.
{% endalert %}

### Adding Liquid

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_liquid.png %}){: style="float:right;max-width:25%;margin-left:15px"}

> To add [Liquid]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid) into your in-app message, select <i class="fa-solid fa-circle-plus"></i> **Add Personalization** from the editor toolbar. Here, you can add various personalization types such as default attributes, device attributes, custom attributes, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add [Liquid]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid) into your in-app message, select <i class="fa-solid fa-circle-plus"></i> **Add Personalization** from the editor toolbar. Here, you can add various personalization types such as default attributes, device attributes, custom attributes, and more.
```

Next, take your generated Liquid snippet and insert it into your message. After you've finished designing and building your in-app message, go to **Preview & Test** to preview your message.

### Using the AI copywriter

> When a text block is selected in your in-app message, click <i class="fa-solid fa-wand-magic-sparkles" title="AI copywriter"></i> in the block toolbar to launch the [AI-powered copywriting assistant]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/intelligence/ai_copywriting/). The AI copywriting assistant passes a brief product name or description to OpenAI’s GPT3 copy generation tool to generate human-like marketing copy for use in your messaging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a text block is selected in your in-app message, click <i class="fa-solid fa-wand-magic-sparkles" title="AI copywriter"></i> in the block toolbar to launch the [AI-powered copywriting assistant]({{site.baseurl}}/user_guide/intelligence/ai_copywriting/). The AI copywriting assistant passes a brief product name or description to OpenAI’s GPT3 copy generation tool to generate human-like marketing copy for your messaging.
```

{% alert tip %}

> You can save a few clicks by highlighting text inside the block before clicking the icon. The highlighted text will be added to the tool and copy will be generated immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can save a few clicks by highlighting text inside the block before clicking the icon. The highlighted text will be added to the tool, and copy will be generated immediately.
```

{% endalert %}

![]({% image_buster /assets/img_archive/dnd_iam_ai_copywriter.gif %})

### Resetting styles to default

> Properties that you have changed from their default styling are marked with an orange dot. To quickly reset a specific property to its default style, hover over the field and select **Reset to default**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Properties that you have changed from their default styling are marked with an orange dot. To reset a specific property to its default style, hover over the field and select **Reset to default**.
```
